# Document Summarization App using Language Model

This Streamlit application allows users to upload a PDF file and obtain a summarization using a Language Model.

## Prerequisites
You have to download all files of https://huggingface.co/MBZUAI/LaMini-Flan-T5-248M/tree/main in folder name LaMini-Flan-T5-248M.
LaMini-Flan-T5-248M should be in same directory streamlit_app.py

Make sure you have the required Python libraries installed. You can install them using the following command:

```bash
conda create --name myenv python=3.10.0
conda activate myenv
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd <repository-directory>
```

2. Run the Streamlit app:

```bash
streamlit run your_script_name.py
```

Replace `your_script_name.py` with the actual name of your Python script.

3. Upload a PDF file using the provided file uploader.

4. Click the "Summarize" button to initiate the summarization process.

5. The application will display the uploaded PDF and provide a summary generated by the language model.

## Components

- **file_preprocessing**: This function reads a PDF file, splits it into pages, and then processes the pages to extract text for summarization.

- **llm_pipeline**: Implements a summarization pipeline using a pre-trained language model from the Hugging Face Transformers library.

- **displayPDF**: This function allows the display of the uploaded PDF file using Streamlit and HTML.

- **main**: The main Streamlit application, including user interface elements, file uploading, summarization, and display functionalities.

## Dependencies

- `streamlit`: The main library for building interactive web applications with Python.
- `langchain`: A custom library used for text processing, including PDF loading and text splitting.
- `transformers`: Hugging Face's library for working with state-of-the-art Natural Language Processing models.
- `torch`: PyTorch, an open-source machine learning library.
- `pyttsx3`: A text-to-speech conversion library in Python.

## Notes

- The summarization model used in this app is LaMini-Flan-T5-248M.

- The application leverages the Streamlit library for creating a user-friendly web interface.

- The summarization result is also read aloud using the pyttsx3 library.
- 
Feel free to customize the README.md based on additional details or information you'd like to include.
